[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> An important new scientific
study shows that energy can be
both channeled to produce
healing and seen through
extended perception
beyond the five senses.
This is Gaia News.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
The Institute of Noetic Sciences
or IONS has for nearly 50 years
been studying the
nature of reality
through rigorous
scientific exploration.
In their latest
study, IONS scientists
set out to validate both
the practice of Reiki
and the phenomenon
of clairvoyance
or extended seeing.
Dr. Helane Wahbeh is the
head of research at IONS.
She has been studying
energy medicine for decades.
>> People who are energy
medicine practitioners might
call energy this system that
runs throughout the body that
they experience energetic,
magnetic, tingling,
et cetera around the body.
And one type of
energy medicine, which
is commonly used now around
the world is called Reiki.
And Reiki is a technique
that originated in Japan.
And it's based on the principle
that the therapist can actually
channel energy into the
patient and activate
their natural healing
process, their innate ability
to heal themselves,
often releasing obstacles
and allowing an optimal
flow throughout the body.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Reiki is one of the best
studied energy medicine
modalities, having been shown
in clinical studies to be
effective in conditions,
including pain, anxiety,
depression, and others.
In this IONS
experiment, researchers
wanted to study
the effect of Reiki
on people with a variety of
physical and mental health
conditions.
To test the principle that the
modality uses a universal life
force energy and can
therefore be applied
to anyone for any condition.
>> We had six Reiki masters
with extensive experience give
30-minute sessions
to 40 participants.
The participant would come in.
They would lay down in
this reclining chair,
and the Reiki practitioner
would say that they were
going to start their session.
And then they would
place their hands
on different parts of their
body and direct the Reiki energy
for 30 minutes.
>> The results were profound.
>> We saw that, yes, well-being,
which is our primary clinical
outcome, significantly improved
from the session immediately
after and also one week later.
And that negative
affect also improved.
The participants had
multiple different types
of health conditions, memory
impairment, depression,
anxiety, and acute injury.
So these are four very different
types of health issues.
And yet, across all
of the participants,
we saw an improvement
in well-being,
and this supports the notion
that Reiki practitioners
suggest, which is that
Reiki is universal.
It's a universal life force
energy and can help anybody.
>> While these results
were significant
in and of themselves,
researchers incorporated
another fascinating component
into the experiment.
While the Reiki sessions
were being conducted,
six experienced clairvoyant
seers observed the sessions.
Various forms of data
were then collected
to determine whether the
information the clairvoyants
were receiving through
their extended perception
was accurate.
Researchers then
analyzed the data
to answer several
important questions.
>> Do the different perceivers
perceive in the same way?
What is the corroboration
in what they
received during the session.
Did the Reiki masters answers
match up with the perceivers?
Did it match up with
the participant?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> What researchers
found was groundbreaking.
To learn about these
fascinating findings,
check out part two of this Gaia
News Special investigation.
For a new perspective,
this is Gaia News.
For more information
on this topic,
check out this content on Gaia.
[MUSIC PLAYING]